+++
date = "2016-06-16T14:30:07+08:00"
title = "Elixir"
tags = ["elixir", "go", "programming"]
+++

All this Gophering around can get boring. That's not a bad thing, I still consider Go the language with which I am strongest and most comfortable. If I had to use a language at my workplace, Go would be it.

But sometimes you just want to poke around and see what else is out there. A language that offers a sense of adventure instead of the safety of Go and its static types, simplicity, rock solid linting and strict philosophy.

[Elixir](elixir-lang.org) complements Go in this regard. In fact it seems to be the complete opposite. Loosely typed, immutable data structures, enumerators, functional style programming.

So yeah, apparently functional programming is a cool hip thing to do nowadays. Its a fancy term, it makes you think that functional programming actually works (you know, its *FUNCTIONAL*).

I play around with linux/unix/osx (hah!) a lot, and the fact that you have a pipeline operator Elixir is amazing! Also map, reduce, filter and each operators are something I miss a lot moving to Go from Ruby, so I'm glad to see that it's got the first class treatment here in Elixir.

# N(ot) I(nvented) H(ere)

Being in Go land for so long, I had forgotten what the rest of the programming world is like. Gopher's shun extending the language, using dependencies, building packages for others to use.

Gopher's have a serious case of NIH syndrome, and everything is handrolled to extremes. Its actually quite nice if you think about it. The software you develop ends up fitting like a really, really tight glove.

It was, however, still an (unexpected) breath of fresh air when I had a look at the Elixir community and how they were enthusiastically talking about writing macros, extending the language, using web frameworks and installing dependencies willy nilly.

# Code

So I figured as a raw exercise, to convert one of the easy katas I did long ago. The exercise is called [Cut the Sticks](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/cut-the-sticks) and is a good exercise in recursion (my Go solution did not, however, use recursion).

## Processing STDIN

The hardest part in Go is always processing the arguments that come through HackerRank. Lots of STDIN scanning, processing etc.

Here is how I processed the STDIN with Go.
```golang
// GetArgs reads from STDIN and returns stuff in the correct format
func GetArgs(r io.Reader) (int, []int) {
	var numArgs = 0
	_, err := fmt.Fscanln(r, &numArgs)

	if err != nil {
		fmt.Println(err)
	}

	sumArgs := make([]int, numArgs)
	for i := range sumArgs {
		_, err = fmt.Fscan(r, &sumArgs[i])
		if err != nil {
			fmt.Println(err)
		}
	}

	return numArgs, sumArgs
}
```
Here it is in Elixir.

```
def process(input) do
  values = String.split(input, "\n")
    |> List.delete_at(0)
    |> List.delete_at(-1)
    |> List.to_string
    |> String.strip
    |> String.split(" ")
    |> Enum.map(&(Integer.parse(&1)))
    |> Enum.map(&(elem(&1,0)))
  recurse_cut(values, Enum.max(values))
end
```

Maybe I just suck at Go, but I dunno, there's just something really, really **satisfying** about the pipeline operator and processing stuff functionally.

## Cutting the sticks

The *actual* code involves chopping off the sticks by the length of the shortest stick until nothing remains.

UPDATE: I had a look and turns out I wrote the Go code recursively after all!

Here it is in Go:
```
func cut(numArgs int, args []int, finalArray []int) (int, []int, []int) {

	var newArray []int
	var newFinalArray []int
	var zeroValue bool

	minArg := args[0]

	// Get smallest number in args
	for _, arg := range args {
		if arg < minArg {
			minArg = arg
		}
		if arg == 0 {
			zeroValue = true
		}
	}

	// If non zero, append to resulting array, less the minimum arg
	for _, arg := range args {
		if arg != 0 {
			newArray = append(newArray, arg-minArg)
		}
	}

	// If there exists any zero length sticks, run function again
	if zeroValue {
		return cut(len(newArray), newArray, finalArray)
	}

	// If more than 1 stick remain, run function recursively
	if numArgs > 1 {
		newFinalArray = append(finalArray, len(newArray))
		return cut(len(newArray), newArray, newFinalArray)
	}

	newFinalArray = append(finalArray, len(newArray))
	return len(newArray), newArray, newFinalArray

}
```


Here it is in Elixir:
```
  def recurse_cut(values, max) when max > 0 do
    min = values
      |> Enum.filter(&(&1 > 0))
      |> Enum.min
    IO.puts(Enum.count(values, &(&1 >= min)))
    result = Enum.map(values, &(&1-min))
    recurse_cut(result, Enum.max(result))
  end

  def recurse_cut(_values, max) when max <= 0 do
  end
```

Its so clean!

As you can see, for programs that require a lot of iteration and mucking about, you might find that a functional style is a lot more efficient, and easier to understand.

I still believe Go has advantages in tooling, raw speed, simplicity, teams, documentation and a unified community vision. But Elixir offers a great functional style of programming and a sense of adventure that complements it very nicely.

I haven't explored Elixir's metaprogramming, macros or concurrency yet. I will have a look and share my thoughts in the future.
